---
description: Reset a trader's password
---

# 1. Reset Trader's Password

### Introduction

This POST endpoint enables you to reset a trader's password. Overall, there are three steps to resetting passwords in ETNA Trader and this is the first step. 

There are three required parameters that must be provided in the request:

1. **Et-App-Key** \(header\). This is the unique key of your app that identifies your app when communicating with our service. Contact your administrator to get this key.
2. **API version** \(path\). Unless necessary, leave it at "1.0".
3. **resource** \(body\). This is a JSON file that contains the login of the trader whose password must be reset as well as the answer to the secret question \(if there is any\).

#### Request Body

The body of this request represents two parameters:

| Parameter | Required | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| User | True | This is the login of the trader. |
| SecretQuestionAnswer | False | This is the answer to the trader's secret question. First try to send the request without this parameter too see if the answer is required. If the response output is something like `"Answer is incorrect, try again."`, fetch the secret question via [this endpoint](2.-retrieve-the-secret-question.md), then prompt the trader for the answer to the question, then try sending this request once again \(this time with this parameter included\). |

```javascript
{
  "User": "robert.zak",
  "SecretQuestionAnswer": "Peterson"
}
```

Here's the final template for this API request:

```text
POST apiURL/v1.0/users/password/reset
```

### Response

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="No Secret Question" %}
In response to this API request, you will receive a JSON file either confirming successful password reset:

```text
{
  "Errors": [],
  "IsSucceed": false
}
```

At this point the trader will have received the confirmation code via email which they will have to use during the [third step](2.-generate-a-token-for-a-new-password.md) of the password reset password.
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Secret Question" %}
If the trader's account does indeed require the answer to a secret question, the response output will be as follows:

```javascript
{
  "Errors": [
    "Answer is incorrect, try again."
  ],
  "ErrorsCode": [
    "ErrorIncorrectAnswer"
  ],
  "IsSucceed": false
}
```

Now proceed to fetch the secret question via [this endpoint](2.-retrieve-the-secret-question.md), then prompt the trader for the answer to the question, then try sending this request once again \(this time with this parameter included\).
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Common Mistakes

Here are some of the common mistakes that developers make when attempting to reset a trader's password.

#### Failing to Specify the Et-App-Key Parameter

If you specify the wrong Et-App-Key parameter or fail to include it in the header altogether, you'll get the following error:

```javascript
{
    "error": "Application key is not defined or does not exist"
}
```

#### Failing to Specify the SecretQuestionAnswer Parameter

Another common mistake when making this request is failing to specify SecretQuestionAnswer parameter. Doing so will result in the following error message:

```javascript
{
  "Errors": [
    "Answer is incorrect, try again."
  ],
  "ErrorsCode": [
    "ErrorIncorrectAnswer"
  ],
  "IsSucceed": false
}
```

