---
description: Reset a trader's password
---

# 1. Reset Trader's Password

### Introduction

This POST endpoint enables you to reset a trader's password. Overall, there are three steps to resetting passwords in ETNA Trader and this is the first step. 

There are three required parameters that must be provided in the request:

1. **Et-App-Key** \(header\). This is the unique key of your app that identifies your app when communicating with our service. Contact your administrator to get this key.
2. **API version** \(path\). Unless necessary, leave it at "1.0".
3. **resource** \(body\). This is a JSON file that contains the login of the trader whose password must be reset as well as the answer to the secret question \(if there is any\).

#### Request Body

The body of this request represents two parameters:

| Parameter | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| User | This is the login of the trader. |
| SecretQuestionAnswer | This is the answer to the trader's secret question. If a trader has not selected a secret question during sign-up, omit this parameter. |

```javascript
{
  "User": "robert.zak",
  "SecretQuestionAnswer": "Peterson" //Optional
}
```

Here's the final template for this API request:

```text
POST apiURL/v1.0/users/password/reset
```

### Response

In response to this API request, you will receive a JSON file either confirming successful password reset or enumerating errors that occurred in the process.

```text
{
  "Errors": [],
  "IsSucceed": false
}
```

Also, at this point the trader will have received the confirmation code via email which they will have to use during the [second step](2.-generate-a-token-for-a-new-password.md) of the password reset password.

### Common Mistakes

Here are some of the common mistakes that developers make when attempting to reset a trader's password.

#### Failing to Specify the Et-App-Key Parameter

If you specify the wrong Et-App-Key parameter or fail to include it in the header altogether, you'll get the following error:

```javascript
{
    "error": "Application key is not defined or does not exist"
}
```

#### Failing to Specify the SecretQuestionAnswer Parameter

Another common mistake when making this request is failing to specify SecretQuestionAnswer parameter. Doing so will result in the following error message:

```javascript
{
  "Errors": [
    "Answer is incorrect, try again."
  ],
  "IsSucceed": false
}
```

